#separator:tab
#html:true
#notetype:Basic
#deck column:1
#columns:Deck	Front	Back	Tags
#tags column:4
popstack::Concepts	In popstack's architecture, what are the three separate things that together make up 'the agent'?	The brain (Claude model), the tools + state (popstack), and the surface (the chat client/app you touch).	popstack agent-architecture
popstack::Concepts	What is the 'brain' in popstack's brain/tools/surface model, and where does it run?	The Claude model that reasons, decomposes, and drills; it runs in Anthropic's cloud and is always remote.	popstack agent-architecture
popstack::Concepts	What does popstack itself provide in the brain/tools/surface model?	The tools + state: goal trees, draw, grounding, Anki/Zotero clients, and your task markdown. It is not the agent's brain.	popstack agent-architecture
popstack::Concepts	What is the 'surface' in popstack's model, and give examples	The thing you actually touch — a chat client or app: Claude Code, the claude.ai app, Obsidian, Anki.	popstack agent-architecture
popstack::Concepts	Why is 'access the agent on my phone' a real build rather than a config toggle in popstack?	You never connect to popstack directly; you connect to a Claude surface (brain-connected) that calls popstack's tools over the network, so a phone surface must be stood up.	popstack phone-access
popstack::Concepts	What does popstack expose as MCP tools (per the Architecture component list)?	Its engine, goals, grounding, and Anki/Zotero clients — server.py exposes all the modules as MCP tools.	popstack mcp
popstack::Concepts	What plays the role of MCP client relative to popstack?	The Claude surface — e.g. Claude Code launches popstack as a subprocess (stdio) or a remote Claude surface calls it over HTTP.	popstack mcp
popstack::Concepts	How does popstack's stdio transport work, and what are its network/auth properties?	The Claude client launches popstack as a child process and talks over stdin/stdout. Local only, no network, no auth. This is the laptop path.	popstack mcp transport
popstack::Concepts	How is popstack reached over the HTTP transport, and over what network for your own devices?	popstack runs as a web server (--http) and a remote Claude surface calls it over the network; for your devices it rides the private tailnet.	popstack mcp transport
popstack::Concepts	What does `claude mcp add` configure, and at what scope?	It configures the Claude Code CLI on one machine — per-machine that runs Claude Code (e.g. your laptop, once).	popstack configuration
popstack::Concepts	What does the claude.ai custom connector configure, and at what scope?	It configures your claude.ai account, once, and applies to every device you're signed into.	popstack configuration
popstack::Concepts	Why does the phone never run `claude mcp add` in popstack's setup?	There is no Claude Code on the phone; configuration is per-machine-running-Claude-Code or per-account, never per-device-you-use.	popstack configuration phone-access
popstack::Concepts	When is a public Tailscale Funnel + OAuth needed for popstack, versus the plain tailnet?	The private tailnet serves your own devices; a public Funnel + OAuth is only needed for the claude.ai cloud connector.	popstack networking
popstack::Concepts	What does enabling Tailscale Funnel do to popstack's HTTP endpoint?	It makes the endpoint public internet (the public URL lands on :443), so the bearer token is only the floor and MCP OAuth is the planned P1 upgrade.	popstack networking security
popstack::Concepts	Why is the phone-via-claude.ai-app path for popstack currently blocked?	claude.ai custom connectors authenticate via OAuth 2.1 (PKCE / dynamic client registration), not a static bearer token, and popstack doesn't implement an OAuth provider yet.	popstack phone-access oauth
popstack::Concepts	What is popstack's only durable state, making it 'stateless infrastructure'?	Markdown files in <vault>/Stack/. No database and no daemon required.	popstack state
popstack::Concepts	On the phone today (no agent), what renders popstack's Stack and Today.md, and over what sync?	Obsidian mobile renders them over your vault's own sync, so it's glanceable and you can capture by editing markdown.	popstack phone-access
popstack::Architecture	In popstack's architecture, what are the three things "the agent" actually is?	Brain (the Claude model), Tools + state (popstack), and Surface (the chat client/app you touch). They must be wired together.	architecture agent-model
popstack::Architecture	Where does popstack's "Brain" run, and who provides it?	The Claude model runs in Anthropic's cloud, always remote, provided by Anthropic.	architecture deployment-planes
popstack::Architecture	Where does popstack itself (tools + state) run?	On a machine you run: your laptop now, an always-on node later. This repo provides it.	architecture deployment-planes
popstack::Architecture	Why is "accessing the agent on my phone" a real build rather than a config toggle?	You never connect to popstack directly; you connect to a Claude surface (brain-connected) reachable from your phone that calls popstack's tools over the network. That surface must be built.	architecture phone-access
popstack::Architecture	In the laptop deployment case, how does the Claude surface reach popstack?	Claude Code launches popstack as a stdio subprocess (MCP over stdio); popstack then touches the vault, Zotero, and Anki via files/localhost. Local only, no network, no auth.	architecture laptop-plane transport
popstack::Architecture	In the phone deployment case, what runs on the phone itself?	Only surfaces/clients: Claude app or PWA (agent), Obsidian mobile (glance), and AnkiDroid/AnkiMobile (recall). popstack does NOT run on the phone; it runs on the always-on node.	architecture phone-plane
popstack::Architecture	How does a remote Claude surface (claude.ai/PWA) reach popstack on your own devices?	Via MCP over HTTP riding the tailnet (private, no public exposure, ADR-014). A public Funnel + OAuth is only needed for the claude.ai cloud connector.	architecture transport tailnet
popstack::Architecture	In popstack, what are the two needs that "learn from anywhere" really splits into?	Recall (review flashcards) which is offline-first, and Agent interaction (decompose/draw/brief/drill) which is online-private. Separating them makes the problem tractable.	portability core-realization
popstack::Architecture	What is popstack's Tier 1 of portable access, and what infra serves it?	Tier 1 = Recall: reviewing flashcards offline, anywhere, daily. Served by the Anki app on the phone (AnkiDroid/AnkiMobile) synced via AnkiWeb; needs zero popstack UI.	portability tiers
popstack::Architecture	What is popstack's Tier 2 of portable access?	Glance & capture (offline-deferred): Obsidian mobile renders the vault (plans, briefs, Today.md, notes) over vault sync; capture appends to an inbox note the node triages when next online.	portability tiers
popstack::Architecture	What is popstack's Tier 3 of portable access, and how is it reached?	Agent interaction (online, private): a thin PWA served by the node, reached over the tailnet (Tailscale/WireGuard) from anywhere with internet, with no public endpoint exposed.	portability tiers
popstack::Architecture	Why does popstack's Tier 3 PWA need no public endpoint, Funnel, or OAuth for your own access?	Tailscale meshes your phone directly to the node via WireGuard with NAT-traversal, so it works from anywhere with internet without exposing anything publicly. This also erases risk R-1.	portability tier-3 tailnet
popstack::Architecture	In popstack's connectivity matrix, which activity works offline everywhere, including a subway/plane dead zone?	Tier 1 Recall — it works offline in every row of the matrix, even with no internet and even when the node is down (AnkiWeb has the cards).	portability connectivity-matrix
popstack::Architecture	In popstack, what does the agent (Tier 3) do in a dead zone or when the node is down?	It is unavailable; agent requests queue for later. Recall (Tier 1) and glance/read (Tier 2) still work.	portability connectivity-matrix
popstack::Architecture	What guarantee does popstack's connectivity-matrix design provide?	The most-frequent, most-portable activity (recall) never depends on connectivity or the node.	portability connectivity-matrix
popstack::Architecture	Trace the request flow when you decompose a paper from Claude Code on the laptop.	Brain calls decompose_source() → MCP/stdio → popstack.goals.create() writes the goal tree to <vault>/Stack/goals/ → returns the plan → brain shows it → you edit in chat or Obsidian.	architecture request-flow
popstack::Architecture	Trace the request flow for reviewing cards on the phone in popstack.	Node: popstack.anki.add_cards() → AnkiConnect → node's Anki → sync → AnkiWeb. Phone: AnkiDroid syncs from AnkiWeb; you review offline. No popstack, brain, or network needed during review.	architecture request-flow recall
popstack::Architecture	Inside popstack's Tier 3, which actions need no LLM versus which need an agent runtime?	Deterministic actions (draw, plan, brief, progress, fixed-card review) are a thin client over existing tools and need no LLM. Generative actions (decompose a new source, free-text-graded drills) need the Claude Agent SDK or claude.ai connector.	portability tier-3
popstack::Design Decisions	In popstack, why is the Obsidian vault chosen as the database (ADR-001)?	Sync, mobile rendering, backup, and human-editability come free via Obsidian; tasks join the wikilink graph (grounding becomes native); zero lock-in.	adr-001 vault-as-database
popstack::Design Decisions	What are the accepted costs of using the vault as popstack's database (ADR-001)?	No transactions (acceptable: single writer in practice) and no queries beyond file walks (fine at personal scale).	adr-001 vault-as-database
popstack::Design Decisions	In popstack's vault-as-database design, how is pool membership represented (ADR-001)?	Pool membership equals the directory: tasks are markdown files (YAML frontmatter) under <vault>/Stack/{active,reservoir,done}/.	adr-001 vault-as-database
popstack::Design Decisions	Why did popstack originally choose weighted-random pops over deterministic 'highest-urgency-first' (ADR-002)?	Deterministic ranking re-serves the same task right after you park it (loop-lock) and reintroduces the choose-or-rationalize step the PRD set out to remove.	adr-002 random-sample
popstack::Design Decisions	In ADR-002, why are pure LIFO and uniform random both rejected for popstack's draw?	Pure LIFO buries old tasks (the xtask-cli failure mode); uniform random starves deadlines. Weighted-random keeps urgent work dominant without a monopoly.	adr-002 random-sample
popstack::Design Decisions	Why did popstack port Taskwarrior's urgency model for weights instead of inventing or learning them (ADR-003)?	Taskwarrior's urgency polynomial has ~15 years of field tuning, giving defensible defaults instead of vibes.	adr-003 taskwarrior-weights
popstack::Design Decisions	What is popstack's ported weight formula and park cooldown (ADR-003)?	1 + due_ramp(<=12, 14-day window) + priority{6,3,0} + age(<=2, /365d); park sets a 4h default cooldown that excludes the task.	adr-003 taskwarrior-weights
popstack::Design Decisions	In Taskwarrior's (and popstack's) aging model, which direction does age push a task's urgency and why (ADR-003)?	Age goes UP (capped), because stale tasks must surface more, bounded -- a maintainer position popstack adopts.	adr-003 taskwarrior-weights aging
popstack::Design Decisions	Why does popstack's park() require a specific next action rather than a bare note (ADR-005)?	Grounded in Gollwitzer's implementation intentions (d~=0.65) and the Ovsiankina resumption tendency, both favoring if-then ('when X, I will Y') plans so future-you restarts warm.	adr-005 park
popstack::Design Decisions	How does popstack enforce the if-then park contract, and how is the ~5s of friction justified (ADR-005)?	The API rejects parks with empty/blank next_action and prompts for if-then form; the friction is the feature -- it guarantees a concrete trigger->action restart cue.	adr-005 park
popstack::Design Decisions	What is popstack's 'integrate, don't rebuild' boundary (ADR-006)?	A small custom FastMCP server owns the loop semantics (weights, cooldowns, pool caps, park contract); FSRS scheduling, review UIs, and reference management are deep products reached as thin clients, never rebuilt.	adr-006 integrate-dont-rebuild
popstack::Design Decisions	Why can't generic community MCP servers replace popstack's custom server (ADR-006)?	The product is the loop semantics -- weights, cooldowns, pool caps, the park contract -- which generic servers cannot enforce.	adr-006 integrate-dont-rebuild
popstack::Design Decisions	Why does ADR-009 demote random draw and default to continuing the current goal/thread?	Forcing the next item to be a different unrelated thing institutes attention-residue task-switching (Leroy 2009) across domains -- the opposite of deep work; for learning, sequence and dependencies matter.	adr-009 resume-biased-draw
popstack::Design Decisions	After ADR-009, what is the loop-lock fix and what role does randomness retain?	The cooldown -- not randomized selection -- is the loop-lock fix; randomness is demoted to a tie-breaker among near-equal candidates (top-k sample).	adr-009 resume-biased-draw
popstack::Design Decisions	Why did popstack move from a flat pool to a Goal -> Subgoal -> Subtask tree (ADR-010)?	A learning objective is a tree with dependencies (understand the math before replicating); the flat active/reservoir pool can't express that structure.	adr-010 goal-tree
popstack::Design Decisions	Why does ADR-011 split aging into 'forgotten' vs 'avoided'?	Escalating all neglected tasks (per Steel 2007) pushes hardest on aversive tasks, training more avoidance and guilt; the right responses for forgotten (resurface) and avoided (decompose/drop) are opposite.	adr-011 aging-split
popstack::Design Decisions	What does popstack do with a subtask offered and declined K times, and what is the new pushes penalty (ADR-011)?	It de-escalates and routes to triage (decompose/drop/defer-with-plan) instead of re-rolling; a pushes penalty lowers the draw weight of parked-often tasks (inverse of before).	adr-011 aging-split pushes-penalty
popstack::Design Decisions	Why is retention treated as the point and cards as a byproduct in popstack (ADR-012)?	The biggest gap was zero spaced repetition across 4,358 notes; retrieval (testing effect / desirable difficulties) is the strong form, so understood subtasks generate recall cards as a byproduct, not a chore.	adr-012 retention-byproduct
popstack::Design Decisions	In ADR-012, what makes popstack's drills 'generative' and what owns scheduling?	Drills ask first, reveal after, and misses become cards; Anki's apps own FSRS scheduling and review while popstack only creates and queries.	adr-012 retention-byproduct
popstack::Design Decisions	Why must popstack file new material into the user's existing organization rather than the root (ADR-016)?	Dumping into the base location (unfiled items, flat notes folder, one mega-deck) destroys the organization the user spent years building (186 Zotero collections; MOC-indexed vaults).	adr-016 file-into-existing
popstack::Design Decisions	How does ADR-016 make every write tool organization-aware?	Each tool discovers the existing structure first (collections/vault_layout/decks), then files into the best-matching existing container; the quarantine folder is the safe default, not the goal.	adr-016 file-into-existing
popstack::Integrations	In popstack, what base does the Zotero client read papers from, and what does it write to?	Reads via Zotero's local HTTP API at localhost:23119; writes (add-by-DOI) via the zotero.org web API at api.zotero.org.	zotero integration
popstack::Integrations	Which Zotero local-API alias does popstack use for reading/grounding, and does it need an API key?	It uses the local API at users/0; reading/grounding needs no API key.	zotero auth
popstack::Integrations	Why does popstack's zotero_add_doi usually fall back to the web API instead of writing locally?	Most Zotero builds make the local API read-only, so add-by-DOI typically falls back to the web API.	zotero integration
popstack::Integrations	What two settings enable popstack's Zotero web-API writes (add-by-DOI)?	ZOTERO_API_KEY and ZOTERO_USER_ID, obtained from zotero.org → Settings → Security.	zotero config
popstack::Integrations	What Zotero setting must be enabled for popstack's local reads/grounding to work?	Settings → Advanced → "Allow other applications on this computer to communicate with Zotero."	zotero config
popstack::Integrations	When a Zotero DOI write can't go through, what does popstack report so the user can recover?	It reports the intended collection (location) so the user can file the paper manually.	zotero organization
popstack::Integrations	How are Zotero collections addressed when popstack files items into them?	By path: collections() lists the folder tree by path, and add_by_doi takes a collection to file there.	zotero organization
popstack::Integrations	On what port does popstack's Anki client (AnkiConnect) communicate?	localhost:8765.	anki integration
popstack::Integrations	What is the AnkiConnect add-on ID required for popstack's Anki integration?	2055492159.	anki config
popstack::Integrations	How are Anki decks nested in popstack, and where are cards filed?	Decks are hierarchical via :: (e.g. agent::agents::frameworks); cards are filed into a topic deck, not one bucket.	anki organization
popstack::Integrations	In popstack's division of labor, what does Anki own versus what popstack does with cards?	Anki's apps own scheduling (FSRS) and review; popstack only creates and queries cards.	anki design-decision
popstack::Integrations	What is popstack's cross-tool organization principle for writing new material?	Discover the existing structure first, then file into the best-matching existing container; never invent a parallel one or dump in the root.	organization design-decision
popstack::Integrations	Which three discovery tools does popstack use to read existing structure before filing in Zotero, Obsidian, and Anki?	zotero_collections (collections()), vault_layout (Obsidian folders + MOCs), and anki_decks (decks()).	organization tools
popstack::Integrations	When card/note/paper placement is unclear in popstack's vault, what is the safe default?	The quarantine folder is the safe default when placement is unclear — not the goal, just the fallback.	organization obsidian
popstack::Integrations	Why can't popstack's MCP server measure its own token usage, and how does it get the data?	The MCP server can't measure tokens itself; usage is client-fed each turn from the transcript via a Claude Code Stop hook.	tokens integration
popstack::Integrations	What command does popstack's token-usage Stop hook run, and what does it attribute usage to?	It runs `uv --directory ~/Documents/repos/popstack run popstack-usage --hook`, attributing each turn's usage to the most recently draw_next'ed subtask.	tokens config
popstack::Integrations	What field links a popstack-generated Anki card back to its source, and what does it contain?	A Source field with an obsidian://open?vault=…&file=… URI and the zotero:// (or DOI) link, plus a tag naming the source note.	anki link-graph
popstack::Behavioral Science	In popstack's ADR-005, why does park() require an if-then next action rather than a bare note?	Implementation intentions (Gollwitzer) and the Ovsiankina resumption tendency specifically favor if-then ("when X, I will Y") plans over bare notes, so future-you restarts warm instead of cold.	behavioral-science implementation-intentions popstack
popstack::Behavioral Science	Which behavioral-science result did popstack RE-ANCHOR park()'s if-then requirement to, and what is its effect size?	Gollwitzer's implementation intentions, with an effect size of d ≈ 0.65 across roughly 90 tests.	behavioral-science implementation-intentions effect-size
popstack::Behavioral Science	In popstack's ADR-005, what was the ORIGINAL citation for the park-with-next-action rule, and why was it replaced?	The original citation was Masicampo & Baumeister 2011, replaced because it is replication-shaky; it was re-anchored to Gollwitzer's implementation intentions.	behavioral-science replication-caveat popstack
popstack::Behavioral Science	According to ADR-011, what does Steel 2007 (the strongest procrastination result) imply about re-presenting neglected aversive tasks on a timer?	It pushes hardest on aversive tasks, training MORE avoidance and guilt rather than action.	behavioral-science procrastination steel-2007
popstack::Behavioral Science	In popstack, how does the Steel-2007 finding lead avoidance to be handled instead of nagging?	Avoided tasks get decomposition, which raises expectancy (the TMT lever), rather than being re-rolled / re-presented on a timer.	behavioral-science TMT expectancy
popstack::Behavioral Science	Why does popstack's ADR-009 reject forcing the next draw to be a different, unrelated task?	It would institute attention-residue task-switching (Leroy 2009) across unrelated domains — the opposite of deep work.	behavioral-science attention-residue leroy-2009
popstack::Behavioral Science	What choice-overload evidence does popstack's ADR-004 cite, and under what conditions is the harm real?	Scheibehenne 2010 vs Chernev 2015: choice overload causes harm only under LARGE, SIMILAR, UNCERTAIN option sets — it is conditional, not universal.	behavioral-science choice-overload popstack
popstack::Behavioral Science	Given that choice overload is conditional, how does popstack's two-pool design (ADR-004) keep the draw pool from triggering it?	Draws come only from a small capped active pool (cap 20) of deliberately-admitted members; overflow and "not now" live in a reservoir, so the option set stays small and meaningful.	behavioral-science choice-overload design
popstack::Behavioral Science	Per popstack's ADR-012, why is showing notes (restudy) the WEAK form of retention and retrieval the strong form?	Making the user retrieve invokes the testing effect (Bjork's desirable difficulties); merely re-showing notes (restudy) does not, so it is the weak form.	behavioral-science testing-effect desirable-difficulties
popstack::Behavioral Science	What does popstack mean by a GENERATIVE recall drill (ADR-012 / FR-10), and why that design?	Ask first, reveal after — retrieval, not restudy; this leverages the testing effect, and misses become new cards.	behavioral-science generative-recall testing-effect
popstack::Behavioral Science	What is the core retention gap in the user's setup that motivates popstack's whole retention layer (ADR-012 / PRD G4)?	Zero spaced repetition across ~4,358 notes — knowledge is captured and re-read but never drilled, so it decays; baseline retention is zero.	behavioral-science spaced-repetition popstack
popstack::Behavioral Science	According to popstack's PRD, why does re-reading fail as a learning strategy?	Re-reading feels like learning and mostly isn't — knowledge is captured and re-read but not drilled, so it decays.	behavioral-science illusion-of-learning spaced-repetition
popstack::Behavioral Science	In popstack, who owns spaced-repetition scheduling and reviews, and why does popstack only create/query cards?	Anki's own apps own scheduling (FSRS) and review (rebuilding SRS would be folly, ADR-006); popstack only creates and queries cards, treating them as a byproduct of understood subtasks.	spaced-repetition FSRS design
popstack::Behavioral Science	What general principle does popstack apply to retention cards so the retention layer actually gets adopted (PRD R-4 / ADR-012)?	Cards are a byproduct of understood work, not a separate chore — reducing the Anki-setup friction that would otherwise block adoption.	behavioral-science friction retention
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	Which two Coram repos are ranked the most advanced (most mature) for agentic adaptation?	logistics-app and logistics-core (both rated ●●●●● Advanced).	coram maturity-ranking
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	Why are logistics-app and logistics-core called the flagship/advanced Coram repos?	They use nearly every Claude Code extension point: layered memory files, path-scoped rules, formatting/linting hooks, MCP servers, custom skills, specialized subagents, and multi-agent code-review orchestration run both locally and from CI.	coram maturity-ranking
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What makes logistics-app the 'most feature-complete' Coram repo specifically?	13 CLAUDE.md files (5 major + 8 nested), .mcp.json (Figma+Linear), Pre/Post hooks, 7 skills, 2 subagent context files, 6 Cursor rules, a GitHub Action, an AI release-analysis workflow, and a corambot REVIEW.md.	coram logistics-app
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	Which MCP servers does logistics-app declare in its .mcp.json, and how are they used?	Two HTTP servers, Linear and Figma, used by the PR workflow (fetch ticket → extract Figma link → run /qa-check).	coram logistics-app mcp
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What is the 'best rules architecture' interface that distinguishes logistics-core?	AGENTS.md is a code-review rules manifest mapping file types to path-scoped .claude/rules/*.md files, consumed by Claude Code, CI, and corambot alike.	coram logistics-core rules
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	In logistics-core, how does cross-language-rules.md always load for every language?	It deliberately has no paths frontmatter, so it always loads — matching its 'Always (all languages)' row in AGENTS.md.	coram logistics-core rules
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What are logistics-core-lpr, logistics-core-lprclean, and logistics-core-lprnff?	Git worktrees of logistics-core on feature branches (not separate repos), sharing the same agent config — except the lpr branch predates the newest skill.	coram logistics-core worktrees
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What is coram-cli's role in Coram's agentic setup?	A Go CLI for AWS/K8s/device management that also acts as the org's de-facto skill distributor, shipping 5 Claude Code skills under skills/.	coram coram-cli
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	How are coram-cli's skills distributed, and why does the repo itself lack a .claude/ directory?	The skills/ directory is meant to be installed into each developer's home Claude config (~/.claude); e.g. cut-release expects its script at ~/.claude/skills/cut-release/cut-release.sh.	coram coram-cli
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What native Claude Code distribution mechanism does coram-cli's ~/.claude skill install pattern reinvent?	Claude Code plugins + an internal marketplace — the first-class cross-repo distribution mechanism Coram does not yet use.	coram coram-cli plugins
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What is the org-wide AI review bot 'corambot' configured by, and what does it do?	Configured per-repo via a REVIEW.md file (YAML config + review guidance); it runs AI PR reviews, injecting the same AGENTS.md/rules into reviews.	coram corambot
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	Why is logistics-core's corambot called a 'third consumer' of the rules source?	Its REVIEW.md extra_context_files injects AGENTS.md plus .claude/rules/* into corambot's review prompt, mirroring the auto-load table — the same source Claude Code and the CI action use.	coram corambot logistics-core
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What does logistics-core's /review-team command do?	Launches 7 specialist reviewers in parallel (Security, Performance, Code Quality, Concurrency, Test Coverage, Go, Architecture), injects AGENTS.md into the perf/quality/concurrency prompts, then aggregates.	coram logistics-core multi-agent-review
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What is the structure of logistics-core's /self-review pipeline?	A 10-agent, 3-phase consensus pipeline: 5 bug-hunters (incl. a 'Devil's Advocate') → 3 quality critics with personas → 2 cross-examiners.	coram logistics-core multi-agent-review
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	What voting tiers does logistics-core's /self-review use to classify findings?	3+ agents = Must Fix, 2 agents = Should Fix, 1 agent = Consider.	coram logistics-core multi-agent-review
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	Across how many parallel systems does Coram run multi-agent review, and which?	Four: /review-team and /self-review in logistics-core; the corambot REVIEW.md bot (enabled in at least 6 repos); claude-code-action CI workflows in four repos; and the clawpatch/Codex review loop in evergreen.	coram multi-agent-review
Coram Agents::Repo Inventory	In Coram, which interfaces are unique to logistics-core versus shared with logistics-app?	Path-scoped .claude/rules/*.md and slash commands (/review-team, /self-review) are logistics-core-only; .cursor/rules and hooks are used by both.	coram interfaces
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	In Coram's logistics-core, what is the role of AGENTS.md (as distinct from CLAUDE.md)?	AGENTS.md is a code-review rules manifest: a table mapping file types to rule files and the condition under which each auto-loads. It is the single source of truth referenced by CI and the review agents.	coram agents-md logistics-core
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	How do path-scoped .claude/rules/*.md files control when they load?	Via glob frontmatter (a paths: key). Each rule loads only when Claude works on files matching its glob; a rule with no frontmatter always loads.	coram rules mechanism
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	Why does logistics-core's cross-language-rules.md deliberately omit frontmatter?	So it always loads, matching its 'Always (all languages)' row in AGENTS.md.	coram rules logistics-core
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What is the file-path convention for a Claude Code skill, and what frontmatter does Coram's coram-cli use?	A skill is .claude/skills/<name>/SKILL.md (or skills/<name>/SKILL.md). coram-cli's SKILL.md frontmatter has name and description (with trigger phrases), plus optional user-invocable, argument-hint/structured arguments, and model.	coram skills mechanism
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What distinguishes a proper subagent (.claude/agents/*.md) from logistics-app's two 'informal' subagent files?	A proper subagent has name/description/tools/model frontmatter. logistics-app's design-system/context.md and qa/context.md are just context documents consumed by the qa-check skill, with no such frontmatter.	coram subagents logistics-app
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	How is logistics-core's nvr-ssh-diagnostics subagent configured, and what does it depend on?	Frontmatter model: opus, tools: Bash, Read (read-only by instruction; Bash is not inherently read-only). It diagnoses camera/NVR issues over SSH and depends on the coram-ssh-agent CLI for persistent sessions.	coram subagents logistics-core
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What two slash commands does logistics-core define, and what does each orchestrate?	/review-team launches 7 specialist reviewers in parallel and injects AGENTS.md into the perf/quality/concurrency prompts. /self-review is a 10-agent, 3-phase consensus pipeline with voting tiers (3+ = Must Fix, 2 = Should Fix, 1 = Consider).	coram slash-commands logistics-core
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	In Coram, what file format are slash commands stored in, and what is their status in the Claude Code mechanism set?	.claude/commands/*.md (legacy format). Slash commands have been merged into skills; .claude/commands/*.md is legacy and new work should migrate to the skills format.	coram slash-commands mechanism
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	Where are hooks configured, and which events fire them in logistics-app?	In .claude/settings.json under hooks. logistics-app uses PreToolUse (matcher Bash) and PostToolUse (matcher Edit|Write).	coram hooks logistics-app
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What does logistics-app's PreToolUse Bash hook do, and what is its key limitation?	It runs an advisory AI review of staged frontend changes via claude --print --model haiku, always exits 0 (never blocks), and only fires on commands matching git commit*, so compound commands like 'cd x && git commit' bypass it.	coram hooks logistics-app
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What does logistics-app's PostToolUse Edit|Write hook do for frontend files?	It cd's into the owning pnpm workspace and runs pnpm exec eslint --fix there, so ESLint resolves baseUrl/paths like CI (which lints per-workspace via pnpm --filter). For backend *.py it runs isort+black via poetry.	coram hooks logistics-app
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What does logistics-core's single hook do, and on what condition?	A PreToolUse Bash hook gated by if: Bash(git commit*) that runs 'make lint; make lint-go-fix; exit 0'. There is no permissions block.	coram hooks logistics-core
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	For the Bash (command-type) hook, what do exit codes 0 and 2 signify?	Exit 0 = OK (allow); exit 2 = block. JSON is passed on stdin.	coram hooks mechanism
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	Which repo declares project MCP servers, where, and which servers?	logistics-app, in .mcp.json (HTTP transport): Linear (https://mcp.linear.app/mcp) and Figma (https://mcp.figma.com/mcp), used by the PR workflow to fetch a ticket, extract the Figma link, and run /qa-check.	coram mcp logistics-app
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	Why does logistics-app's analyze-video-streaming-ux skill 'silently' depend on user-level config?	It accesses PostHog via mcp__coram-mcp__posthog-* tools from a custom coram-mcp server that is NOT declared in the repo's .mcp.json, so it relies on user-scoped MCP config being present.	coram mcp skills
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What GitHub Action does Coram use for its CI agent, and how is it triggered in logistics-app vs logistics-core?	anthropics/claude-code-action@v1 in .github/workflows/claude.yml. logistics-app triggers on @claude mentions; logistics-core triggers on /claude-review comments with an embedded prompt to 'Read AGENTS.md... apply all rules'.	coram github-actions ci
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	How does corambot's REVIEW.md in logistics-core inject org rules into review prompts?	Via extra_context_files, which injects AGENTS.md plus the .claude/rules/* files into corambot's review prompt — always for AGENTS.md/cross-language, glob-conditioned for per-language files, mirroring the auto-load table in AGENTS.md.	coram corambot review-md
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	Across Coram, which three consumers share the same AGENTS.md/.claude/rules source of truth?	Claude Code (interactive), the claude-code-action CI workflow, and corambot's REVIEW.md (via extra_context_files) — corambot being the third consumer of the same rules.	coram single-source-of-truth rules
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What is the recommended way to use AGENTS.md with Claude Code rather than duplicating it into CLAUDE.md?	Symlink (ln -s AGENTS.md CLAUDE.md) or import it with @AGENTS.md at the top of CLAUDE.md, maintaining one source of truth and importing rather than duplicating.	agents-md claude-md mechanism
Coram Agents::Agent Interfaces	What is the recommended max length for a CLAUDE.md memory file, and where should overflow detail go?	Each file should be ~200 lines or fewer; push detail into skills or path-scoped .claude/rules/*.md (glob frontmatter that loads only on matching files).	claude-md memory best-practice
Coram Agents::Improvements	What is identified as the single biggest improvement opportunity for Coram's agentic config (rec #1)?	Distributing shared agent config via an internal plugin marketplace (Impact 5 stars, Effort Medium).	plugin-marketplace recommendations
Coram Agents::Improvements	Why is an internal plugin marketplace recommended as Coram's top opportunity?	Every adapted repo re-implements overlapping config (language rules, review commands, formatting/lint hooks, common skills) with no single place to fix a rule once and have it propagate.	plugin-marketplace rationale
Coram Agents::Improvements	How does Claude Code support an internal plugin marketplace technically?	A git repo with a .claude-plugin/marketplace.json; repos install plugins with /plugin marketplace add <url> and pin by commit SHA.	plugin-marketplace mechanism
Coram Agents::Improvements	Into what four domain-packaged plugins does rec #1 propose splitting Coram's config?	coram-review (review commands as skills + review subagents), coram-rules (.claude/rules rule set), coram-workflows (address-pr-comments/cut-release/ticket/etc.), and coram-mcp (bundled .mcp.json).	plugin-marketplace packaging
Coram Agents::Improvements	Which existing distribution hack does the plugin marketplace (rec #1) retire?	The coram-cli skill-distribution hack — a Go CLI repo whose skills are hand-installed into each developer's ~/.claude.	plugin-marketplace coram-cli
Coram Agents::Improvements	What is the CLAUDE.md / AGENTS.md / .cursor triplication problem (rec #2)?	The same conventions are authored three times by hand and have concretely diverged (e.g. logistics-core's .cursor dev-rules names stale ./tools/*.sh scripts and contradicts CLAUDE.md on Mac dev-container support).	triplication rationale
Coram Agents::Improvements	What single-source pattern already proven in Coram's repo does rec #2 cite as the model?	Corambot's REVIEW.md and the CI action both inject AGENTS.md + .claude/rules rather than copying them — three consumers, one source.	triplication precedent
Coram Agents::Improvements	How does rec #2 propose collapsing the config triplication?	Pick one authoritative source per concern; shrink CLAUDE.md to an onboarding stub that @AGENTS.md-imports the rest; replace .cursor duplicates with thin pointer files; add a missing AGENTS.md to logistics-app.	triplication recommendation
Coram Agents::Improvements	Why move oversized CLAUDE.md content into path-scoped rules (rec #3)?	Large CLAUDE.md files (frontend's is 354 lines) load entirely into context for any work in that tree; path-scoped rules load only when matching files are touched.	memory rationale
Coram Agents::Improvements	What is the recommended best-practice line limit for a CLAUDE.md file, per rec #3?	200 lines or fewer, with detail moved to path-scoped rules.	memory numbers
Coram Agents::Improvements	What mechanism lets path-scoped rules auto-load by file type (rec #3)?	.claude/rules/*.md files with a paths: glob frontmatter (as logistics-core already demonstrates).	memory mechanism
Coram Agents::Improvements	Why migrate legacy slash commands to the skills format (rec #4)?	Anthropic has merged commands into skills, so the legacy flat-file format is outdated; skills are cleanly packageable as plugins and let heavy review prompts use progressive disclosure.	commands-to-skills rationale
Coram Agents::Improvements	What stale model pins does rec #5 flag, and what should replace them?	CI pins like claude-opus-4-5-20251101 and claude-opus-4-6 are stale; update to claude-fable-5 (newest, June 2026) or claude-opus-4-8 if CI cost is a concern.	model-pins numbers
Coram Agents::Improvements	Why does rec #5 say the logistics-app pre-commit hook's unpinned 'haiku' alias is acceptable?	It auto-tracks the latest Haiku and is appropriately sized for a cheap advisory review.	model-pins rationale
Coram Agents::Improvements	Why add deny-list guardrails to settings.json (rec #7)?	settings.json files have no deny list; cut-release compensates by manually reading settings and aborting on dangerous commands — a guardrail the permission system should enforce, not skill instructions an agent could skip.	deny-list rationale
Coram Agents::Improvements	What shared deny-list baseline does rec #7 propose?	Bash(rm -rf *), Bash(git push --force*), Read(./.env*), Bash(sudo *), plus destructive infra commands (kubectl/aws/helm/terraform/gh release), shipped via managed settings or the org plugin.	deny-list recommendation
Coram Agents::Improvements	What key property makes permissions.deny stronger than skill-based guardrails (rec #7)?	Deny/ask lists are enforced before any tool runs and are not loosenable by hooks; enterprise managed settings can enforce them org-wide.	deny-list mechanism
Coram Agents::Improvements	In the suggested sequencing, which recs come first (Phase 1 Foundations) and why?	Recs 5 (model pins), 3 (trim memory), 4 (commands to skills) — cheap, local, immediate quality wins that prep for packaging.	sequencing
Coram Agents::Improvements	Why is the plugin marketplace (rec #1) sequenced in Phase 3 rather than first?	You must establish single sources of truth (Phase 2: de-dup, formal subagents, deny lists, MCP) before distributing them, so you package the now-clean config once and roll it out org-wide.	sequencing rationale
Coram Agents::Improvements	What goes in Phase 2 (Consolidate) of the suggested sequencing?	Recs 2 (de-dup guidance), 6 (formal subagents), 7 (deny lists), 9 (MCP) — establish single sources of truth before distributing them.	sequencing
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What are the four scopes of CLAUDE.md memory files?	Project ./CLAUDE.md (committed), user ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md, local gitignored ./CLAUDE.local.md, and enterprise/managed (system path).	claude-code claude-md memory
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	How is CLAUDE.md precedence resolved, and when do nested subdir CLAUDE.md files load?	Root-to-cwd tree walk; nested subdir CLAUDE.md files load on demand when Claude reads files in that directory.	claude-code claude-md memory
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What do @path imports do in CLAUDE.md, and what is their hop limit?	They pull other files into memory (max ~4 hops) — the mechanism for modular memory and for importing AGENTS.md.	claude-code claude-md imports
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What is the recommended line limit per CLAUDE.md file, and where should overflow detail go?	Keep each file at roughly 200 lines or fewer; push detail into skills or path-scoped .claude/rules/*.md (glob frontmatter, loaded only on matching files).	claude-code claude-md best-practice
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	Which two frontmatter keys are required for a Claude Code subagent?	name and description (both required); all others like tools, model, memory are optional.	claude-code subagents frontmatter
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What values can a subagent's model frontmatter key take?	opus, sonnet, haiku, or inherit.	claude-code subagents frontmatter
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What does the subagent memory frontmatter key control, and what are its values?	It enables accumulating knowledge for the agent; values are user, project, or local. Best practice is memory: project.	claude-code subagents memory
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What is progressive disclosure in Claude Code skills?	Only skill descriptions load into context until a skill is actually invoked, saving context.	claude-code skills progressive-disclosure
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What does the skill frontmatter key disable-model-invocation: true do?	It makes the skill manual-only — it won't be auto-invoked by the model and must be run explicitly.	claude-code skills frontmatter
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	How do slash commands relate to skills in current Claude Code?	Slash commands are merged into skills; .claude/commands/*.md is legacy, and new work should use the skills format.	claude-code skills slash-commands
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	For a Claude Code hook of type command, what do exit codes 0 and 2 signal?	Exit 0 means OK (allow); exit 2 means block.	claude-code hooks
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What are the five hook types in Claude Code?	command (default), http, prompt (LLM), agent (subagent), and mcp_tool.	claude-code hooks types
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What is the precedence order for Claude Code settings, from highest to lowest?	Managed policy > CLI flags > settings.local.json (gitignored, personal) > settings.json (shared) > ~/.claude/settings.json (user).	claude-code settings precedence
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What are the three permission lists in settings.json, and how do hooks and managed deny interact with them?	allow, deny, and ask lists. Hooks can tighten but not loosen permissions, and managed deny always wins.	claude-code settings permissions
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What are the four MCP configuration scopes in Claude Code?	User (~/.claude.json), project (.mcp.json), subagent-inline (mcpServers frontmatter), and session (--mcp-config).	claude-code mcp scopes
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What MCP transports does Claude Code support?	stdio, sse, http, and ws.	claude-code mcp transports
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What file defines a Claude Code marketplace, and how do consumers add one?	.claude-plugin/marketplace.json lists the plugins; consumers run /plugin marketplace add <url>, then install/pin by SHA.	claude-code plugins marketplace
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What does a Claude Code plugin bundle, and what file versions it?	It bundles skills/, agents/, hooks/hooks.json, .mcp.json, settings.json, bin/, etc., versioned via .claude-plugin/plugin.json.	claude-code plugins
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	What makes the Claude Agent SDK behave like Claude Code?	It runs the same engine and loads the same .claude/ config — providing built-in tools, subagents, hooks, MCP, sessions, permissions, memory, and worktree isolation.	claude-code agent-sdk
Coram Agents::Claude Code Reference	How can Claude Code use an existing AGENTS.md cross-tool standard file?	Symlink it (ln -s AGENTS.md CLAUDE.md) or import it (@AGENTS.md at the top of CLAUDE.md); maintain one source of truth and import rather than duplicate.	claude-code agents-md cross-tool
